---
title: "Tinder"
category: ['2017']
excerpt: '“Writing about writing,” focuses on how we might think about writing as an act that is political, that is emotional, and that, for many different reasons, can be difficult or frustrating.'
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/colette-blackboard.png
  teaser: assets/images/colette-blackboard.png
  alt: "Classroom blackboard with written in chalk"
sidebar:
  - title: ""
    image: /assets/images/colette-bio.png
    image_alt: "Portrait of Colette Gerstmann"
    text: "Colette Gerstmann"
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/colette-student1.png
    image_path: assets/images/colette-student1.png
    alt: "Example of Student Work 1"
  - url: /assets/images/colette-student2.png
    image_path: assets/images/colette-student2.png
    alt: "Example of Student Work 2"
  - url: /assets/images/colette-student3.png
    image_path: assets/images/colette-student3.png
    alt: "Example of Student Work 3"
---
My name is Colette Gerstmann, and I am a teaching artist currently taking Professor Laynie Browne’s Creative Writing Outreach course at Swarthmore College. I feel that this class has marked a transition point for me: no longer do I think abstractly about ‘becoming a writing teacher,’ but I am actually now doing the work of ‘becoming,’ even though it is only the beginning. I have finally started my journey toward learning how to teach, which is something I am excited about. Now, I am motivated to continue to learn and gain concrete skills and wisdom through experience and time

As a core part of this course, I developed a series of five lesson plans for poetry and writing projects. These lessons are designed to be appropriate for middle schoolers, but most can be adapted for other age groups as well. Many of these lessons incorporate history, art history, and visual art-making into writing projects; most focus on writing about emotions; and most involve creating collaboratively. Through the course, I have worked with students in a fifth-grade classroom at Swarthmore-Rutledge School. I got to know the students and the school through a weekly placement, and eventually taught two lessons in the classroom. 

## Synopsis

One of the lessons that I taught, entitled “Writing about writing,” focuses on how we might think about writing as an act that is political, that is emotional, and that, for many different reasons, can be difficult or frustrating. The lesson centers Rupi Kaur’s untitled poem (that begins with, “at times I want to stop writing completely…”) as a literary model. 

In the classroom, we read Kaur’s poem aloud as a class and thought about why she chooses to write a poem that expresses frustration with poetry. We talked about what it feels like to have “writer’s block” and to be insecure about one’s own ability to write. We focused on the line “the english language is a tsunami,” considered that Kaur lives in a country where her native language is not the dominant language, and reflected on how our knowledge of that fact might inform our reading of the poem. We asked: how might Kaur’s frustration with writing in English be related to the fact that those who emigrate to English-speaking countries are often forced to leave their languages behind? How is that frustration meaningfully different from the frustration a native English speaker might feel towards writing in English? We moved on to discussing Kaur’s decision not to use capital letters or punctuation in the poem; how poetry can “break” or work outside the bounds of standard English grammar rules; and why Kaur chooses to accompany her poem with a drawing of a tightly-wound spiral.

As a class, we tried out a writing prompt in which we used the beginning of each of Kaur’s lines and completed it with our own words, writing a poem as a class on the chalkboard. Following Kaur’s choice to include a drawing with her poem, we decided on a drawing that could accompany our class poem: flames (which I attempted to draw in this picture!).

Next, we moved to writing our own poems. I wanted to use an individual writing prompt that was still based on Kaur’s poem, but that used a different structure than our class poem. I let students know that, as a prompt, they could pick one part of Kaur’s poem to mimic in their own writing; I then asked them which part they would want to mimic. Several students suggested that the prompt could involve using a repetition of the lines, “How can I be so…but so….” We resolved to use this prompt as a guideline or a jumping-off point for students’ pieces of writing, and they could veer from this structure if they wanted to. When students were finished writing their pieces, I asked that each student turn to a partner and make a drawing for the other person to accompany their piece. Many of the results, a few of which are included below, are vibrant poems or prose pieces (accompanied by drawings) that speak about struggling with writing and about dealing with contradictory feelings or experiences.

## Examples of Student Work

{% include gallery caption="Fifth-grade classroom at Swarthmore-Rutledge School" %}